Hello, App Store developers.
I'm Greg from
the App Store Review team.
Today I'm going to share tips
from our team
to help you write clear,
succinct purpose strings.
At Apple,
we believe that privacy
is a fundamental human right,
and so Apple products are
designed to protect privacy
and give users control
over their information.
In addition to designing
our products
with privacy protections,
privacy is central
in the App Store Review
guidelines.
Guideline 5.1.1, in particular,
details some requirements
that are essential
for protecting user privacy
in the Apple ecosystem,
like minimizing the data
you collect to just
what you need.
Today we're going to focus
on one requirement
we see both new and experienced
developers struggle with:
being clear and transparent
when requesting permission
to access protected resources.
We'll share tips and examples
to help you prevent
a common 5.1.1 rejection:
insufficient purpose strings.
We'll start by giving
some background
on permission requests
and the role they play
in protecting user privacy.
We'll then focus in
on purpose strings,
short descriptions provided
by you to describe why
your app needs access,
and talk about some things
App Store Review
looks for in review.
We'll then finish with examples
of purpose strings
that wouldn't pass review
and discuss
how they can be rewritten
to be clear and specific.
But first, let's talk
about permission requests.
Our devices are
an important part of our lives.
What people share from their
devices should be up to them,
which is why all
Apple operating systems
restrict access to protected
data and resources by default.
To access this information,
apps must first request
the user's permission.
This puts users in control --
they can decide which apps
have access to what.
But to make
an informed decision,
people need to know more
about why your app needs access
and what it will do
once it has it.
This is where purpose strings --
also called
"usage descriptions," --
come in.
A purpose string is
a short message you provide
that appears on every
permission request.
It describes why your app
needs access
and what you will do
with the user's data.
You'll define these messages
on an app's
information property list --
or info p-list --
by setting a string value
to a resource-specific key.
This is an important interaction
between you and your app's users
on Apple operating systems.
It's a chance to build trust
by being clear and specific
about what your app
is trying to do.
Why is this so important?
Let's compare these
permission requests from apps
with a situation
from the real world;
one that you've probably
experienced before.
Imagine you go to buy a cup of
coffee from a local coffee shop.
Coffee in hand,
you're ready to pay
when the cashier asks
for your phone number.
Huh. They haven't asked
for that before,
so why would they need it?
This can go one of two ways.
The cashier could say,
"We use your number
to provide a better
coffee-drinking experience."
So that sounds great,
but it's not very specific
and it's not clear
what that means.
On the other hand,
they could tell you
how they use your number
to track your purchases,
rewarding you
with a free cup of coffee
for every fifth cup
you buy.
In both cases, it's up to you
what happens next,
only in the second example
do you have the information
you need to make
an informed decision.
This kind of positive
user experience
is what App Store Review
looks for
when reviewing
purpose strings.
We make sure the purpose string
gives users the information
they need to make
an informed decision.
What does this look like
when we review your app?
Well, we approach apps
like a new user would.
This means we see
permission request alerts
just as your users will
when we try to use features
that access protected resources.
This way we understand
the full experience
and can anticipate
what people need to know
to make informed decisions.
So in review,
we look for two key qualities
in purpose strings.
They should explain specifically
how the app will use the data
and provide an example
of how the data will be used.
Let's take a look
at some examples
to see what purpose strings
look like
when they have
these two qualities
and what it's like for users
when they don't.
First, we have a navigation app
that specializes in recommending
scenic routes.
When users try to access
the navigation feature,
this is what they see:
"To use location."
Not much to go on, right?
When you're developing an app,
you know exactly what
you will use a resource for.
But users don't have
the same understanding about
how your app works.
They rely on the information you
provide in the purpose string
to make their decision,
and in this case,
the user doesn't have
the information they need.
To build trust, this developer
needs to say specifically
how they plan to use the data
and provide an example.
This would be better.
"Your location is used to
determine the recommended route
to your destination and provide
turn-by-turn directions."
Now the purpose string
is specific
and provides concrete examples
of what the app will be
able to do with the user's
location data.
Keep in mind, if your app
supports localizations
for a global audience,
be sure to provide localized
purpose strings as well.
We recommend testing your app
set to different localizations
to confirm the user sees the
correct localized app content.
Well, let's take a look at
another example.
Here we have
a social network app.
The developer shares data
collected in the app
with third parties to deliver
targeted advertisements.
Before collecting any data
used to track though,
they need to request permission
using App Tracking Transparency.
When you first open the app,
the App Tracking Transparency
permission request appears.
Here's what it currently says:
"Your data will be used
to provide a better experience."
So this may be true,
but it doesn't tell the user
what they need to know.
How, specifically,
will their data be used?
What's an example
of the better experience
they should expect
if they grant permission?
A better approach would be:
"Your data will be used to
deliver personalized advertising
for products that are
most relevant to you."
Now it's clear what
the developer will do
with this information
and what the user would gain
from granting access.
This developer could even
provide more context
about what would happen
if the user says no to tracking.
"Your data will be used
to deliver
personalized advertising.
You will still see
advertisements
if you decline tracking,
but they may be
less relevant to you."
Either of these examples
would be fitting for this app.
The goal is to be
transparent and clear
at the moment
you request permission.
Another thing to keep in mind;
many apps on the App Store
integrate third-party
SDKs and libraries.
These SDKs and libraries
can provide a wide variety
of features and services,
such as account authentication.
What you may not realize
is they can also reference
APIs that will try to access
protected resources,
like location data.
If your app has a reason
to access these resources,
define a purpose string
on the info p-list
that applies to your app's
specific use case.
If not, you should remove
references to these APIs
from your app's binary.
Remember, you are responsible
for everything in your app,
including SDKs, libraries, or
other code from third parties.
When developing your app,
be sure to familiarize yourself
with any protected resources
they may try to access
and ensure that these requests
are intentional
before submitting
your app for review.
So you might have noticed
the examples so far
have focused on purpose strings
with too little information.
But what about the opposite?
Is there such a thing
as too much information?
Let's see what
this could look like.
Here we have an app
for local gardeners
where you can look at pictures
of your friends' gardens.
When we go to take
our first picture, however,
we see the developer chose
to include a long description
on the request.
Let me see if I can
do this in one breath.
[BREATHES IN]
"Whether you're just discovering
your green thumb
or a veteran plant expert,
use our app to share
your love of gardening!
With access to your camera,
you'll be able to take
profile pictures posing
with your favorite succulent,
capture your raised beds
in their best afternoon light,
and much, much more!"
A bit much, isn't it?
Usually just a sentence
or two is enough
to tell people
what they need to know.
For our garden app,
this would be better:
"Our app uses the camera
to capture photos
for updating and sharing
on your gardener profile."
Now the purpose string is
specific and includes examples
that cover the various uses
of the camera in the app.
Not too long, not too short,
purpose strings
should be just right.
Longer, wordier purpose strings
can be accurate
and may pass review,
but they're not the ideal
experience for the user.
Keep the description
straightforward and to the point
so it's easy to read
and understand
when viewed in the app.
Let's put all of that together
and go on a quick
permission request journey
with one of our
hypothetical apps.
Accurately and concisely
explaining to the user
why your app needs access
to sensitive data lets the user
make an informed decision
and improves the chances
that they'll grant access,
so that your app
will function for them
exactly as you've intended.
It allows you to describe
your app's unique experience
while keeping
the user in control
of their personal information.
And understanding that users
will make their decision
to grant access based
on what you write will help you
add the appropriate context
to your purpose strings
to keep them relevant,
transparent, and informative.
Keep these examples in mind
for your future submissions
to the App Store.
We hope they help you keep
users informed and allow them
to enjoy everything
your app has to offer.
Thanks for watching our video.
To learn more about
permission requests
and developing
with privacy in mind,
there's helpful guides
and documentation
on the Apple Developer website
and in the Human Interface
Guidelines.
We look forward to reviewing
your future submissions
to the App Store.